# Overview

Libigl is an open source C++ library for **geometry processing** research and development.

This chapter illustrates a few discrete quantities that libigl can compute on a mesh and the libigl functions that construct popular discrete differential geometry operators. It also provides an introduction to basic drawing and coloring routines of our viewer.

## References

- [libigl | SIGGRAPH Asia 2017 Courses](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3134472.3134497)
- [libigl tutorial | Chapter-2](https://libigl.github.io/tutorial/#chapter-2-discrete-geometric-quantities-and-operators)

## Chapter 2 Discrete Geometric Quantities And Operators

### Normals

Surface normals are a basic quantity necessary for rendering a surface. There are a variety of ways to compute and store normals on a triangle mesh. **Example 201** demonstrates how to compute and visualize normals with libigl.

**Per-face**

**Per-vertex**

**Per-corner**

### Gaussian Curvature

Gaussian curvature on a continuous surface is defined as the product of the principal curvatures:

$$
k_G = k_1k_2
$$

### Curvature Directions

### Gradient

### Laplacian

The discrete Laplacian is an essential geometry processing tool. Many interpretations and flavors of the Laplace and Laplace-Beltrami operator exist.

In open Euclidean space, the Laplace operator is the usual **divergence of gradient** (or equivalently the Laplacian of a function is the trace of its **Hessian**):

$$
\nabla ^ 2 f = \Delta f = \frac{\partial^2f}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2f}{\partial y^2} + \frac{\partial^2f}{\partial z^2}
$$

### Exact Discrete Geodesic Distances

The discrete geodesic distance between two points is the length of the shortest path between then restricted to the surface. For triangle meshes, such a path is made of a set of segments which can be either edges of the mesh or crossing a triangle.

Libigl includes a wrapper for the exact geodesic algorithm developed by Danil Kirsanov:

```cpp
igl::exact_geodesic(V,F,VS,FS,VT,FT,d);
```

computes the closest geodesic distances of each vertex in `VT` or face in `FT`, from the source vertices `VS` or faces `FS` of the input mesh `V,F`. The output is written in the vector d, which lists first the distances for the vertices in `VT`, and then for the faces in `FT`.
