# Overview

Libigl is an open source C++ library for **geometry processing** research and development.

In computer graphics, we denote as surface parametrization a map from the surface to $\mathbf R^2$. It is usually encoded by a new set of 2D coordinates for each vertex of the mesh (and possibly also by a new set of faces in one to one correspondence with the faces of the original surface). Note that this definition is the inverse of the classical differential geometry definition.

A parametrization has many applications, ranging from texture mapping to surface remeshing. Many algorithms have been proposed, and they can be broadly divided in four families:

- **Single patch, fixed boundary**: these algorithm can parametrize a disk-like part of the surface given fixed 2D positions for its boundary. These algorithms are efficient and simple, but they usually produce high-distortion maps due to the fixed boundary.

- **Single patch, free boundary**: these algorithms let the boundary deform freely, greatly reducing the map distortion. Care should be taken to prevent the border from self-intersecting.

- **Global parametrization**: these algorithms work on meshes with arbitrary genus. They initially cut the mesh in multiple patches that can be separately parametrized. The generated maps are discontinuous on the cuts (often referred as seams).

- **Global seamless parametrization**: these are global parametrization algorithm that hides the seams, making the parametrization “continuous”, under specific assumptions that we will discuss later.

## References

- [libigl | SIGGRAPH Asia 2017 Courses](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3134472.3134497)
- [libigl tutorial | Chapter-5](https://libigl.github.io/tutorial/#chapter-5-parametrization)

## Chapter 5 Parametrization

### Harmonic Parametrization

### Least Squares Conformal Maps

### As-rigid-as-possible Parametrization

### N-rotationally Symmetric Tangent Fields

### Global, Seamless Integer-grid Parametrization

### Anisotropic Remeshing

### Anisotropic Remeshing
